# Solar Power Generation Data Analysis

This repository gives an analysis of 34 days of solar power plant data, as found at:

> [Solar Power Generation Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/anikannal/solar-power-generation-data)

## Background
Solar power is generated when sunlight strikes solar panel rigged to harness solar energy. Multiple solar panels are rigged up to an inverter, which converts the direct current generated by the solar panel group into alternating current. In our data set, two solar power plants each have 22 inverters supplying power to the plant. Measurements of each inverter's power yield are reported every 15 minutes. Additionally, for every 15 minute interval we also have enviornmental data giving the current plant temperature, individual temperatures associated with each inverter, and the irradiation (sunlight) intensity at the plant. We have 34 days of continuous measurements of such data.

## Goal

The goal is to investigate the data to answer the following questions:

1) Can we predict daily power yield given a weather prediction?
2) Can we identify underperforming power inverters?
3) Can we predict when a power inverter will underperform?

## Results
General results are as follows:

###Predict Power Generation given Irradiation


### Predict Yield Given a Day's Irradiation Measurements


### Identify Inverter Underperformance


### Predict when an Invdrter will Under-perform



## Contents
The work is written in R markdown. Analysis is primarily on powerplant 1 data. For information on the data, see [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/anikannal/solar-power-generation-data). The contents of each R markdown file is as folows:

The data (power yields and weather sensors for two plants) -
```
Powerplant Data
```

Cleans the data (run first, requires ~ 4 min) -
```
pp-clean-data.Rmd
```

Investigates how to predict power-yield for a single time interval -
```
pp-power-regression.Rmd
```

Forcasts daily power yield given irradiation measurements -
```
pp-yield-forcasting.Rmd
```

Identifies when low power-yield occures, reports methods used to try to predict low power-yield, and investigates correlation of performance between different inverters -
```
pp-find-fail.Rmd
```
